In this video
we're going to cover the question
what about an empty cart?
So you may have noticed
when you are poking around
or testing your application
that if the cart is empty,
then it shows information about the totals
but there's nothing really to see,
and ideally you'd probably want to tell the user,
"Hey, your cart's empty, there is nothing here."
So we'll actually modify the code
to kind of support this.
And so what I'll do is I'll make
one quick minor update for the logo link
in our application and this is
in our app.component.html file.
So just a quick minor update here.
This is kind of unrelated to the empty cart item
but I simply wanted to fix this
because this is something
that's been lingering here for a bit.
So let's select the file app.component.html.
I'll move in to the menu sidebar section
and zoom in, and I'll update the href here
for the link on our logo.
And I'll make use of router link
to make use of the Angular routing
and this will go to /products.
And that's something that I should have fixed
much earlier but anyway,
we got it taken care of now
so we're all good to go.
Okay, so now back to the real issue here for us,
actually displaying the empty cart message.
So moving back to our cart-details.component.html
I only want to show the table
of the cart items
only if we have some data to show.
If not, I want to give the user a message
"Hey, your cart is empty."
So I can make use of an ngIf
and just check the size of the cart items.
So here I'll have cartItems.length greater than zero.
If so, then we can go ahead
and handle all the table stuff and so on.
Let me just do a cut-paste on that /div,
move it down to the bottom of the table.
So I'll place it right after the table.
And then make sure you have
those three divs there at the bottom.
Just to make sure the placement is correct.
Alrighty, so if we save that,
then that should help get us started.
Let me just highlight everything here for the table
and just tab it in, just so everything's lined up.
That looks pretty good.
So here we have the ngIf
just checking the cartItems.length.
All right, so I'll swing over to my app
and click on the cart and okay,
it's not displaying the table,
it's displaying nothing.
So that part is working
but I also want to show a message
if the cart is empty, okay?
So we're almost there.
And so we can add this support
by making use of an ngIf
and just checking to see
if cartItems.length equals zero,
then we display whatever our message is.
And so here we'll simply give our message
"Your shopping cart is empty."
All right, so we can save this
and swing back into our browser.
Alrighty, so there's the message.
Let's just go through the full app here
and test it out.
So going over to our shopping cart icon.
Okay, good, so your shopping cart is empty.
Great! So this is working out just fine.
Now let's add some items to the cart
and see how that part works out.
Alrighty, and oh, they're good.
So we only see the cart if there's actually
some items in the cart.
If not, we get the error message as desired.
So this is great.
Good job!